Now, looking around the camera,
the next topic,
that is a huge topic, so I'm just
going to take the most simple part
is Augmented Reality that also
mixes with virtual reality.
So, Augmented Reality, AR or XR.
Today for the web, for web developers or
for web app developers,
there are many ways that we can use.
We can use WebXR, that's an API available
today on Chromium-based browsers,
but in Safari,
it's actually an experiment.
Let me prove that.
An experiment that is still not working.
When you walk through
experimental features,
at the bottom, you have WebXR,
okay, a lot of WebXR experiments.
Why is that?
I mean, it's not 100% confirmed, but
we know that Apple is working
on some kind of headset.
So they're preparing Safari for
when that's ready, right?
That's kind of why it's coming.
So with WebXR, it's a low-level API.
I will show you how it works in a second.
But instead of doing that, something
that is probably more straightforward Is
to use a high-level solution for
augmented reality content.
I will show you one in a second.
Talking about WebXR, the low-level API,
actually how the API is designed,
is pretty similar to the Gamepad API
because it was designed at the same time.
In terms of how it looks like, I'm not
saying it's the same, but how it looks
like, how the terms used within the API,
is pretty similar to the Gamepad API.
You can query about the devices available.
What's a device?
It can be a headset, or it can be
a headset where you put your phone in,
that they're kind of dead today, okay?
Daydream, there were a lot
of projects around that, but
today no one is using those.
But on computers,
if you have a VR headset connected,
then you can detect that
you have a VR headset.
You can also detect on
compatible devices 3D space.
So it can let you analyze
your space around you and
give you a 3D model in JavaScript.
The pose of where you're looking at within
that virtual environment, depth sensing.
Again, this relies on the hardware
that you might have, or software,
because I will show you that you can use
this even without devices with the camera.
And the API will also create vectors
representing movements of input controls.
So if you have an input control
where you were supposed to move into
a virtual environment,
it will give you the backdoor so
you can apply that into your web GL or
web GPU environment.
But that's complicated,
you need to get into VR.
It's really complicated.
And also something, that's the last thing
they have added, lighting estimation.
So based on the real lighting,
it can estimate the light that you
need to apply to virtual objects.
And hit testing is for example, if you're
walking around and you have elements,
if those elements will hit real tables,
real chairs, and so on.
So working with the WebXR,
we're not going to get too deep with this.
I will show you something I think that is
simpler for the first approach to this,
but you just called
navigator.xr.requestsession.
And there are three kinds of sessions
today available, it depends on the device.
Immersive-vr, that means you have
a headset for VR, immersive-ar,
you have a headset that can also look
what is your real environment or inline.
Inline can be used with your phone
without any device attached.
Just using the camera and
sometimes some sensors from the camera,
it's actually a hardware.
So Apple has created a format
that is called AR Quick Look,
Augmented Reality Quick Look,
I'm not sure if you have seen this before.
Where you create an anchor,
so a link with the rel ar and
you point to a usdz file,
that is a 3D model with metadata for
augmented reality such as
how that element fits in
the real world,
such as the real size of that element,
that 3D model doesn't count for
the real world.
Well, this is a 3D model
with more metadata.
On Android and Chrome, instead of applying
this non standard way of doing things,
they have created something
known as model viewer.
Model viewer is a web component
that you can add to your website.
And internally,
it will use the apple's implementation or
WebXR to offer the same solution.
So it's a library, okay?
But internally,
it makes the same code compatible,
the same model compatible with iOS and
Android.
Probably you don't understand
what that means yet, so
let me show you what this is.
I have here the modelviewer.dev website,
let me refresh.
So you see the experience.
So the right experience is that
I am seeing that arm chair, and
I can view that in my space.
Can you see that View in your space?
So View in your space,
see if though I'm in the Chrome, yeah,
I'm in Chrome,
because I already granted permission.
I wanted to show you the permission for
that.
Yeah, can you see that Permissions,
Augmented Reality is already allowed.
Let me reset it so
you see it from scratch.
So this is what you see,
that this website, so
it's a capability that lets me
create a 3D map of my surroundings.
And we'll say, Allow.
And now, probably you've
seen this on iPhone as well,
where it's asking me to move around so
it can actually put,
this is our real environment here in
front of the mouse parts, it looks nice.
It's actually pretty similar to
the real one you have there.
I can even rotate it, okay?
And I feel is a real size of
that particular thing, okay?
Pretty cool.
So well, this lesson,
it's Augmented Reality, but
you don't need any device,
just a website pointing to a model.
Also it depends on the phone,
it might have or not hit test.
If you have hit test, you will know
when you are hitting another element.
Not in this one, for example,
you can see it's hitting, but
it's not really hitting that.
But anyway, you can try the different
examples here, go back.
There are more elements that you can try,
and also you can see this.
That's if you go to AR,
I can put an astronaut here as well.
He can continue the workshop or
maybe he is a she, I don't know.
There you have it.
This option can only be viewed in
true scale, it's too big.
Anyway, for that, that's a capability and
it's available on iOS and Android as well.
To make it compatible with both platforms,
the simplest way to do that
is to use this library.
Internally, it will use WebXR ON Android
or the Safari solution for iPhone.
And you can reuse the same model,
the same file.
These things are really nice for
something really quick.
But having your phone like this,
like with this pose for a while,
it's a little bit annoying.
So it works, it's nice, but
no more than one minute doing this.
So you don't wanna do that.
For that, you wanna a headset.
So if you have a headset, yeah, that's
much better because you don't need to
have your hand like this or with an iPad
with two hands doing this all the time.
You will get tired pretty easily.
So it looks nice, I mean, it's a geeky
thing, but then when you try it,
it's just for
a couple of seconds and that's all.
A headset will change the landscape a lot.
Here you have another example
I did a couple of months ago.
I don't know which country, it was
a hotel, that's the only thing I remember.
But it works pretty well.
As you can see, it looks really well.
That was iPhone I think,
and that's an animation, so
everything can be moving, as you can see.
So it can be an animation
on the fly that you
receive from the network that
is created by another user.
So technically, everything is there.